The next thing we're gonna talk about is
two performance optimizations for React.
One of them is called useMemo and
one of them is called useCallback.
They're extremely similar.
Infact, useCallback is just
basically a permutation of useMemo.
You can actually implement
useCallback using useMemo,
fun fact, but
we're not gonna do that today.
So you can see here I have this little
animation of this red ball going back
and forth.
And let's actually just go directly
to Stack, let's look at it on there.
Okay, So
the way that this is working
is it's just doing Math.sin,
right, which is like a wave
that goes back and forth.
And then it's requesting AnimationFrame,
and it's animating to set the left +1,
and then it's using sin to go back and
forth, right?
So this is updating several
times a second, and
it's moving itself 0.05 every single
time that it does that, okay?
We also have this very
expensiveMathOperation here.
And you can just take me at my word that
expensiveMathOperation is expensive.
But just so you know,
it's just the Fibonacci sequence.
If you don't know what the Fibonacci
sequence is, don't worry about it, but
just know that at the end of the day,
this is what, 1.5 million.
This is the number one added
to itself 1.5 million times,
which is dumb and expensive.
But you can imagine this would be
like calculating some formula or
something like that where it would be
some sort of expensive computation,
that's what we're meant
to try to simulate here.
So going back to our useMemo code,
if I don't do this useMemo here and
I just directly calculate
this every single time,
that's gonna cause this our little
animation here to be very janky, right?
And we don't want that,
we want that to have a nice
smooth animation back and forth.
So just to prove my point here,
let's copy this.
And we're just gonna say,
expensive computation.
And now if I save this, look at how
janky our animation gets, right?
It gets really slow.
Because now every single
time that ball moves,
it's added one to itself 1.5 million
times, which is wild, right?
And this just gets worse as we
increase the count here, right?
It's just slowing to a crawl.
So if we go back to this,
I think I probably made my
browser a bit slow now as well.
So let's just refresh the page totally,
Part of it is that I haven't cleaned
up my animation frames as well.
But you can see now with using
this useMemo, it's nice and crisp.
And if I hit plus here, notice it'll
stop for a second while it recalculates.
But once it's done, then it goes
back to being nice and quick again.
So that's what useMemo does, you give it
a function here to how to recalculate
something and
then you tell it when to recalculate.
This is the exact same kind of array
that you give to effects, is like, hey,
only recalculate when count is different.
I mean,
the only way that we make count different
is by clicking on the plus button here.
Does that make sense?
So in particular when you're
performance sensitive, right,
when I start seeing jank here, that's when
I know, okay, this is a good opportunity
to useMemo to prevent that kinda jank from
happening inside of my React components